# What is Philosophy?: Crash Course Philosophy #1

Philosophia: The Love Of Wisdom

Philosophy: The Academic Study of Anything

Examples of philosophical questioning:

"What is the Nature of Reality"
- "is there a god?"
- "if so, what does he/she look like?"

Or

"What is the Nature of yourself"
- "What kind of being am I?"
- "Do I have a soul?"
- "What happens after I die?"

There are 3 main branches of philosophy:

1. Metaphysics 
- The branch of philosophy that studies the nature of reality
- (kinda like how when movies/videogames become self-aware 
and start referencing things outside of it's universe.
e.g. Deadpool, Cabin In The Woods, The Stanley Parable)

2. Epistemology
- The branch of philosophy that studies the nature and scope of knowledge
- (in other words, explaining how we know the answers to stuff)
- (Knowing about knowing)

Examples of Epistemology questions:

"Is the world really what I think it is?"
"Is everything I see, think, and experience actually true?"
"If it isn't, then what IS true? What is the best way of figuring out the truth?"
"Are there more ways to solving problems other than science? 
Maybe a method that's more... *ethereal* "

OR

"Is it WORTH knowing the actual truth" 
(in the words of Jack Nicholson's script writer:
"YOU CAN'T HANDLE THE TRUTH!!!")

3. Value Theory
- There are two types of sub-branches in Value Theory:
Ethics & Aesthetics

- Ethics: The branch of philosophy that studies & evaluates human conduct
  - It's the study of how humans should live with each other.
  - "Why is being kind to others right, and being mean to others wrong?"

- Aesthetics: The branch of philosophy that studies the nature of beauty
  - "The Pursuit of Aesthetics Involves Considering What Beauty is...
  and whether it even exists."
  - Aestheticians: People who study the the objective nature of beauty, 
  rather than how an individual personally perceives beauty in their own way.

In my words: "I think you could compare 
Ethics and Aesthetics to the musical genre's
'Hip-Hop' and 'R&B'

With Hip-Hop, the audiences more often reward 
the songs that are dense with meaning within'
the lyrical aspects of each piece. A hip-hop listener
would prioritize the themes or the content of the song, 
what the song is actually "talking about", 
over how the song sounds aesthetically.
Which brings me to R&B...

With R&B, the audiences more often reward the songs
that focus on the musicality of each piece. 
How clean and pleasing each note is sung/played,
The type of sounds that are implemented
Usually in manner that influences people to get up and dance.

This isn't in anyway saying one genre is better than the other.
In fact,
many times it is in those situations where 
artists and creators can blend both 
the ethics and the aesthetics
(in this case, Hip-Hop and R&B)
and find a meaningful balance between the two aspects of music
where they usually create amazing pieces of art.

Logic: the aspect of philosophy that, 
rather than asks questions,
helps us find the answers.

Logic is about "reasoning"
giving strong arguments that don't fall victim
to fallacy.

Fallacy: 
A failure in reasoning or flawed reasoning 
that leads to an invalid or unsound argument.



